README.md, before:

# ChildMindInstitute
# Mindlogger

## <span style="color:#9DB7FF">About</span>
👉 This repository is used as a backend for the service MindLogger [HERE](https://github.com/ChildMindInstitute/mindlogger-backend-refactor).

🔌 **Web application is powered by:**
- ✅ [Python3.10+](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3108/)
- ✅ [Pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/)
- ✅ [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com)
- ✅ [Postgesql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/index.html)
- ✅ [Redis](https://redis.io)
- ✅ [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- ✅ [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io)
- ✅ [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/)

And

- ✅ [The 12-Factor App](https://12factor.net)

<br/>

🔌 **Code quality tools:**
- ✅ [flake8](https://github.com/pycqa/flake8)
- ✅ [black](https://github.com/psf/black)
- ✅ [isort](https://github.com/PyCQA/isort)
- ✅ [mypy](https://github.com/python/mypy)
- ✅ [pytest](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest)

<br/>

## ✋ <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Mandatory steps</span>

### 1. Clone the project 🌐

```bash
git clone git@github.com:ChildMindInstitute/mindlogger-backend-refactor.git
```

### 2. Setup environment variables ⚙️

👉 Project is configured via environment variables. You have to export them into your session from which you are running the application locally of via Docker.

👉 All default variables configured for making easy to run application via Docker in a few clicks

> 💡 All of them you can find in `.env.default`


#### 2.1 Description 📜
| Key | Default value                                                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
| --- |------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PYTHONPATH | src/                                                             | This variable makes all folders inside `src/` reachable in a runtime. <br/> ***NOTE:*** You don't need to do this if you use Docker as far as it is hardcoded in `Dockerfile` |
| DATABASE__HOST | postgres                                                         | Database Host                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DATABASE__USER | postgres                                                         | User name for Postgresql Database user                                                                                                                                        |
| DATABASE__PASSWORD | postgres                                                         | Password for Postgresql Database user                                                                                                                                         |
| DATABASE__DB | mindlogger_backend                                               | Database name                                                                                                                                                                 |
| CORS__ALLOW_ORIGINS | `*`                                                              | Represents the list of allowed origins. Set the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header. Example: `https://dev.com,http://localohst:8000`                                        |
| CORS__ALLOW_CREDENTIALS | true                                                             | Set the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` header                                                                                                                             |
| CORS__ALLOW_METHODS | `*`                                                              | Set the `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` header                                                                                                                                 |
| CORS__ALLOW_HEADERS | `*`                                                              | Set the `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` header                                                                                                                                 |
| AUTHENTICATION__ACCESS_TOKEN__SECRET_KEY | secret1                                 | Access token's salt                                                                                                                                                           |
| AUTHENTICATION__REFRESH_TOKEN__SECRET_KEY | secret2 | Refresh token salt                                                                                                                                                            |
| AUTHENTICATION__ALGORITHM | HS256                                                            | The JWT's algorithm                                                                                                                                                           |
| AUTHENTICATION__ACCESS_TOKEN__EXPIRATION | 30                                                               | Time in minutes after which the access token will stop working                                                                                                                |
| AUTHENTICATION__REFRESH_TOKEN__EXPIRATION | 30                                                               | Time in minutes after which the refresh token will stop working                                                                                                               |
| ADMIN_DOMAIN | -                                                                | Admin panel domain                                                                                                                                                            |

##### NOTE:
> If you want to generate your own secret key for authentication or encryption please use next command:
```bash
python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

##### ✋ Mandatory:

> You can see that some environment variables have double underscore (`__`) instead of `_`.
>
> As far as `pydantic` supports [nested settings models](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/usage/settings/) it uses to have cleaner code

#### 2.2 Create `.env` file for future needs

It is hightly recommended to create `.env` file as far as it is needed for setting up the project with Local and Docker approaches.

```bash
cp .env.default .env
```

#### 2.3 Generate secret keys, update .env with values

```bash
openssl rand -hex 32
```

<br/>


## 👨‍🦯 <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Local development</span>

### 1. Decide how would you run storages 🤔

#### 1.1 Setup locally

✅ [🐧 Linux](https://redis.io/docs/getting-started/installation/install-redis-on-linux/)

✅ [ MacOs](https://redis.io/docs/getting-started/installation/install-redis-on-mac-os/)


#### 1.2 Install via Docker 🐳

```bash
docker-compose up -d redis
```

### 2. Install all project dependencies 🧱

Pipenv used as a default dependencies manager

```bash
# Activate your environment
pipenv shell

# Install all deps from Pipfile.lock
# to install venv to current directory use `export PIPENV_VENV_IN_PROJECT=1`
pipenv sync --dev
```

<br/>

> 🛑 **NOTE:** if you don't use `pipenv` for some reason remember that you will not have automatically exported variables from your `.env` file.
>
> 🔗 [Pipenv docs](https://docs.pipenv.org/advanced/#automatic-loading-of-env)

So then you have to do it by your own manually
```bash
# Manual exporting in Unix (like this)
export PYTHONPATH=src/
export BASIC_AUTH__PASSWORD=1234
...
```

...or using a Bash-script
```bash
set -o allexport; source .env; set +o allexport
```

> 🛑 **NOTE:** Please do not forget about environment variables! Now all environment variables for the Postgres Database which runs in docker are already passed to docker-compose.yaml from the .env file.

<br/>


### 3. Provide code quality ✨

#### 3.1 Using pre-commit hooks 🔬

It is a good practice to use Git hooks to provide better commits.

For increased security during development, install `git-secrets` to scan code for aws keys.

Please use this link for that: https://github.com/awslabs/git-secrets#installing-git-secrets

`.pre-commit-config.yaml` is placed in the root of the repository.

👉 Once you have installed `git-secrets` and `pre-commit` simply run the following command.

```bash
make aws-scan
```

👉 Then all your staged cahnges will be checked via git hooks on every `git commit`

#### 3.2 Using Makefile 🤖

### 4. Running the application ▶️


> 🛑 **NOTE:** Don't forget to set the `PYTHONPATH` environment variable, e.g: export PYTHONPATH=src/

In project we use simplified version of imports: `from apps.application_name import class_name, function_name, module_nanme`.

For doing this we must have `src/` folder specified in a **PATH**.

P.S. You don't need to do this additional step if you run application via Docker container 🤫


```bash
uvicorn src.main:app --proxy-headers --port {PORT} --reload
```

<br/>

### 5. Running Tests ▶️

The `pytest` framework is using in order to write unit tests.
Currently postgresql is used as a database for tests with running configurations that are defined in `pyproject.toml`

```toml
DATABASE__HOST=postgres
DATABASE__PORT=5432
DATABASE__PASSWORD=postgres
DATABASE__USER=postgres
DATABASE__DB=test
```
> 🛑 **NOTE:** To run tests localy without changing DATABASE_HOST please add row below to the `/etc/hosts` file (macOS, Linux). It will automatically redirect postgres to the localhost.
```
127.0.0.1       postgres
```

#### Adjust your database for using with tests

⚠️️ Remember that you have to do this only once before the first test.

```base
# Connect to the database with Docker
docker-compose exec postgres psql -U postgres postgres

# Or connect to the database locally
psql -U postgres postgres


# Create user's database
psql# create database test;

# Create arbitrary database
psql# create database test_arbitrary;

# Create user test
psql# create user test;

# Set password for the user
psql# alter user test with password 'test';
```

#### Test coverage

To correctly calculate test coverage, you need to run the coverage with the `--concurrency=thread,gevent` parameter:

```bash
coverage run --concurrency=thread,gevent -m pytest
coverage report -m
```

<br/>
<br/>

## 🐳 <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Docker development</span>

### 1. Build application images 🔨

```bash
docker-compose build
```
✅ Make sure that you completed `.env` file. It is using by default in `docker-compose.yaml` file for buildnig.

✅ Check building with `docker images` command. You should see the record with `fastapi_service`.

💡 If you would like to debug the application insode Docker comtainer make sure that you use `COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.dev.yaml` in `.env`. It has opened stdin and tty.



### 2. Running the application ▶️

```bash
docker-compose up
```

Additional `docker-compose up` flags that might be useful for development

```bash
-d  # Run docker containers as deamons (in background)
--no-recreate  # If containers already exist, don't recreate them
```

#### Stop the application 🛑
```bash
docker-compose down
```

Additional `docker-compose down` flags that might be useful for development

```bash
-v  # Remove with all volumes
```

#### Run only tests 🛑
(This is how tests are running on CI)
```bash
make dtest
```


### 3. Provide code quality ✨

✋ Only in case you want to setup the Git hooks inside your Docker container and burn down in hell you may skip this step. 👹 🔥

👉 <u>For the rest of audience it is recommended:</u>
1. Don't install pre-commit hooks
2. Use Makefile to run all commands in Docker container


Usage:

```bash
# Check the code quality
make dcq

# Check tests passing
make dtest

# Check everything in one hop
make dcheck
```


## 💼 <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Additional</span>

### Makefile

You can use the `Makefile` to work with project (run the application / code quality tools / tests ...)

For local usage:

```bash
# Run the application
make run

# Check the code quality
# make cq

# Check tests passing
make test

# Check everything in one hop
make check

...
```
💡 If you want run web-app locally you can use the next command

Run web-app locally (don't forget to activate the environment)
```bash
make run
```

### CORS policy

By default CORS policy accepts all connections


## <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Alembic (migration)</span>

### 1. Add a new migrations file 🔨

```bash
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Add a new field"
```

### 2. Upgrade to the latest migration 🔨

```bash
alembic upgrade head
```

### 3. Downgrade to the specific one 🔨

```bash
alembic downgrade 0e43c346b90d
```
✅ This hash is taken from the generated file in the migrations folder

### 3. Downgrade to the specific one 🔨

```bash
alembic downgrade 0e43c346b90d
```

### 4. Removing the migration 🔨

💡 Do not forget that alembic saves the migration version into the database.
```bash
delete from alembic_version;
```

### 5. Upgrade arbitrary servers
``` bash
alembic -c alembic_arbitrary.ini upgrade head
```

### 6. Database relation structure
```mermaid

erDiagram

User_applet_accesses ||--o{ Applets: ""

    User_applet_accesses {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        int user_id FK
        int applet_id FK
        string role
    }

    Users {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string email
        string full_name
        string hashed_password
    }

 Users||--o{ Applets : ""

    Applets {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string display_name
        jsonb description
        jsonb about
        string image
        string watermark
        int theme_id
        string version
        int creator_id FK
        text report_server_id
        text report_public_key
        jsonb report_recipients
        boolean report_include_user_id
        boolean report_include_case_id
        text report_email_body
    }

Applet_histories }o--|| Users: ""

    Applet_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        jsonb description
        jsonb about
        string image
        string watermark
        int theme_id
        string version
        int account_id
        text report_server_id
        text report_public_key
        jsonb report_recipients
        boolean report_include_user_id
        boolean report_include_case_id
        text report_email_body
        string id_version
        string display_name
        int creator_id FK
    }

Answers_activity_items }o--|| Applets: ""
Answers_activity_items }o--|| Users: ""
Answers_activity_items }o--|| Activity_item_histories: ""

    Answers_activity_items {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        jsonb answer
        int applet_id FK
        int respondent_id FK
        int activity_item_history_id_version FK
    }

Answers_flow_items }o--|| Applets: ""
Answers_flow_items }o--|| Users: ""
Answers_flow_items ||--o{ Flow_item_histories: ""

    Answers_flow_items {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        jsonb answer
        int applet_id FK
        int respondent_id FK
        int flow_item_history_id_version FK
    }

Activities }o--|| Applets: ""

    Activities {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        UUID guid
        string name
        jsonb description
        text splash_screen
        text image
        boolean show_all_at_once
        boolean is_skippable
        boolean is_reviewable
        boolean response_is_editable
        int ordering
        int applet_id FK
    }

Activity_histories }o--|| Applets: ""

    Activity_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        UUID guid
        string name
        jsonb description
        text splash_screen
        text image
        boolean show_all_at_once
        boolean is_skippable
        boolean is_reviewable
        boolean response_is_editable
        int ordering
        int applet_id FK
    }

Activity_item_histories }o--|| Activity_histories: ""

    Activity_item_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        jsonb question
        string response_type
        jsonb answers
        text color_palette
        int timer
        boolean has_token_value
        boolean is_skippable
        boolean has_alert
        boolean has_score
        boolean is_random
        boolean is_able_to_move_to_previous
        boolean has_text_response
        int ordering
        string id_version
        int activity_id FK
    }

Activity_items }o--|| Activities: ""

    Activity_items {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        jsonb question
        string response_type
        jsonb answers
        text color_palette
        int timer
        boolean has_token_value
        boolean is_skippable
        boolean has_alert
        boolean has_score
        boolean is_random
        boolean is_able_to_move_to_previous
        boolean has_text_response
        int ordering
        int activity_id FK
    }



Flows }o--|| Applets: ""

    Flows {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string name
        UUID guid
        jsonb description
        boolean is_single_report
        boolean hide_badge
        int ordering
        int applet_id FK
    }

Flow_items }o--|| Flows: ""
Flow_items }o--|| Activities: ""

    Flow_items {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        int ordering
        int activity_flow_id FK
        int activity_id FK
    }

Flow_item_histories }o--|| Flow_histories: ""
Flow_item_histories }o--|| Activity_histories: ""

    Flow_item_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string id_version
        int activity_flow_id FK
        int activity_id FK
    }

Flow_histories }o--|| Applet_histories: ""

    Flow_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string name
        UUID guid
        jsonb description
        boolean is_single_report
        boolean hide_badge
        int ordering
        string id_version
        int applet_id FK
    }


```

## <span style="color:#9DB7FF"> Arbitrary setup </span>
You can connect arbitrary file storage and database by filling special fields in table `user_workspaces`.
### 1. PostgreSQL
Add your database connection string into `database_uri`
In next format:
```
postgresql+asyncpg://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:port/database
```
### 2. AWS S3 and GCP S3
For AWS S3 bucket next fields are required:
`storage_region`,`storage_bucket`, `storage_access_key`,`storage_secret_key`.
### 3. Azure Blob
In case of Azure blob, specify your connection string into field `storage_secret_key`

Commit message:

M2-4388: Add make command to set local secrets

README.md, after:

# ChildMindInstitute
# Mindlogger

## <span style="color:#9DB7FF">About</span>
👉 This repository is used as a backend for the service MindLogger [HERE](https://github.com/ChildMindInstitute/mindlogger-backend-refactor).

🔌 **Web application is powered by:**
- ✅ [Python3.10+](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3108/)
- ✅ [Pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/)
- ✅ [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com)
- ✅ [Postgesql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/index.html)
- ✅ [Redis](https://redis.io)
- ✅ [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- ✅ [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io)
- ✅ [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/)

And

- ✅ [The 12-Factor App](https://12factor.net)

<br/>

🔌 **Code quality tools:**
- ✅ [flake8](https://github.com/pycqa/flake8)
- ✅ [black](https://github.com/psf/black)
- ✅ [isort](https://github.com/PyCQA/isort)
- ✅ [mypy](https://github.com/python/mypy)
- ✅ [pytest](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest)

<br/>

## ✋ <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Mandatory steps</span>

### 1. Clone the project 🌐

```bash
git clone git@github.com:ChildMindInstitute/mindlogger-backend-refactor.git
```

### 2. Setup environment variables ⚙️

👉 Project is configured via environment variables. You have to export them into your session from which you are running the application locally of via Docker.

👉 All default variables configured for making easy to run application via Docker in a few clicks

> 💡 All of them you can find in `.env.default`


#### 2.1 Description 📜
| Key | Default value                                                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
| --- |------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PYTHONPATH | src/                                                             | This variable makes all folders inside `src/` reachable in a runtime. <br/> ***NOTE:*** You don't need to do this if you use Docker as far as it is hardcoded in `Dockerfile` |
| DATABASE__HOST | postgres                                                         | Database Host                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DATABASE__USER | postgres                                                         | User name for Postgresql Database user                                                                                                                                        |
| DATABASE__PASSWORD | postgres                                                         | Password for Postgresql Database user                                                                                                                                         |
| DATABASE__DB | mindlogger_backend                                               | Database name                                                                                                                                                                 |
| CORS__ALLOW_ORIGINS | `*`                                                              | Represents the list of allowed origins. Set the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header. Example: `https://dev.com,http://localohst:8000`                                        |
| CORS__ALLOW_CREDENTIALS | true                                                             | Set the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` header                                                                                                                             |
| CORS__ALLOW_METHODS | `*`                                                              | Set the `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` header                                                                                                                                 |
| CORS__ALLOW_HEADERS | `*`                                                              | Set the `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` header                                                                                                                                 |
| AUTHENTICATION__ACCESS_TOKEN__SECRET_KEY | secret1                                 | Access token's salt                                                                                                                                                           |
| AUTHENTICATION__REFRESH_TOKEN__SECRET_KEY | secret2 | Refresh token salt                                                                                                                                                            |
| AUTHENTICATION__ALGORITHM | HS256                                                            | The JWT's algorithm                                                                                                                                                           |
| AUTHENTICATION__ACCESS_TOKEN__EXPIRATION | 30                                                               | Time in minutes after which the access token will stop working                                                                                                                |
| AUTHENTICATION__REFRESH_TOKEN__EXPIRATION | 30                                                               | Time in minutes after which the refresh token will stop working                                                                                                               |
| ADMIN_DOMAIN | -                                                                | Admin panel domain                                                                                                                                                            |

##### ✋ Mandatory:

> You can see that some environment variables have double underscore (`__`) instead of `_`.
>
> As far as `pydantic` supports [nested settings models](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/usage/settings/) it uses to have cleaner code

#### 2.2 Create `.env` file for future needs

It is hightly recommended to create `.env` file as far as it is needed for setting up the project with Local and Docker approaches.

```bash
cp .env.default .env
```

#### 2.3 Generate secret keys, update .env with values. If you want to set all secrets with one command go to the 2.4

```bash
make generate-secret
```

#### 2.4 Set all local secrets
```bash
make set-local-secrets
```

<br/>


## 👨‍🦯 <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Local development</span>

### 1. Decide how would you run storages 🤔

#### 1.1 Setup locally

✅ [🐧 Linux](https://redis.io/docs/getting-started/installation/install-redis-on-linux/)

✅ [ MacOs](https://redis.io/docs/getting-started/installation/install-redis-on-mac-os/)


#### 1.2 Install via Docker 🐳

```bash
docker-compose up -d redis
```

### 2. Install all project dependencies 🧱

Pipenv used as a default dependencies manager

```bash
# Activate your environment
pipenv shell

# Install all deps from Pipfile.lock
# to install venv to current directory use `export PIPENV_VENV_IN_PROJECT=1`
pipenv sync --dev
```

<br/>

> 🛑 **NOTE:** if you don't use `pipenv` for some reason remember that you will not have automatically exported variables from your `.env` file.
>
> 🔗 [Pipenv docs](https://docs.pipenv.org/advanced/#automatic-loading-of-env)

So then you have to do it by your own manually
```bash
# Manual exporting in Unix (like this)
export PYTHONPATH=src/
export BASIC_AUTH__PASSWORD=1234
...
```

...or using a Bash-script
```bash
set -o allexport; source .env; set +o allexport
```

> 🛑 **NOTE:** Please do not forget about environment variables! Now all environment variables for the Postgres Database which runs in docker are already passed to docker-compose.yaml from the .env file.

<br/>


### 3. Provide code quality ✨

#### 3.1 Using pre-commit hooks 🔬

It is a good practice to use Git hooks to provide better commits.

For increased security during development, install `git-secrets` to scan code for aws keys.

Please use this link for that: https://github.com/awslabs/git-secrets#installing-git-secrets

`.pre-commit-config.yaml` is placed in the root of the repository.

👉 Once you have installed `git-secrets` and `pre-commit` simply run the following command.

```bash
make aws-scan
```

👉 Then all your staged cahnges will be checked via git hooks on every `git commit`

#### 3.2 Using Makefile 🤖

### 4. Running the application ▶️


> 🛑 **NOTE:** Don't forget to set the `PYTHONPATH` environment variable, e.g: export PYTHONPATH=src/

In project we use simplified version of imports: `from apps.application_name import class_name, function_name, module_nanme`.

For doing this we must have `src/` folder specified in a **PATH**.

P.S. You don't need to do this additional step if you run application via Docker container 🤫


```bash
uvicorn src.main:app --proxy-headers --port {PORT} --reload
```

<br/>

### 5. Running Tests ▶️

The `pytest` framework is using in order to write unit tests.
Currently postgresql is used as a database for tests with running configurations that are defined in `pyproject.toml`

```toml
DATABASE__HOST=postgres
DATABASE__PORT=5432
DATABASE__PASSWORD=postgres
DATABASE__USER=postgres
DATABASE__DB=test
```
> 🛑 **NOTE:** To run tests localy without changing DATABASE_HOST please add row below to the `/etc/hosts` file (macOS, Linux). It will automatically redirect postgres to the localhost.
```
127.0.0.1       postgres
```

#### Adjust your database for using with tests

⚠️️ Remember that you have to do this only once before the first test.

```base
# Connect to the database with Docker
docker-compose exec postgres psql -U postgres postgres

# Or connect to the database locally
psql -U postgres postgres


# Create user's database
psql# create database test;

# Create arbitrary database
psql# create database test_arbitrary;

# Create user test
psql# create user test;

# Set password for the user
psql# alter user test with password 'test';
```

#### Test coverage

To correctly calculate test coverage, you need to run the coverage with the `--concurrency=thread,gevent` parameter:

```bash
coverage run --concurrency=thread,gevent -m pytest
coverage report -m
```

<br/>
<br/>

## 🐳 <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Docker development</span>

### 1. Build application images 🔨

```bash
docker-compose build
```
✅ Make sure that you completed `.env` file. It is using by default in `docker-compose.yaml` file for buildnig.

✅ Check building with `docker images` command. You should see the record with `fastapi_service`.

💡 If you would like to debug the application insode Docker comtainer make sure that you use `COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.dev.yaml` in `.env`. It has opened stdin and tty.



### 2. Running the application ▶️

```bash
docker-compose up
```

Additional `docker-compose up` flags that might be useful for development

```bash
-d  # Run docker containers as deamons (in background)
--no-recreate  # If containers already exist, don't recreate them
```

#### Stop the application 🛑
```bash
docker-compose down
```

Additional `docker-compose down` flags that might be useful for development

```bash
-v  # Remove with all volumes
```

#### Run only tests 🛑
(This is how tests are running on CI)
```bash
make dtest
```


### 3. Provide code quality ✨

✋ Only in case you want to setup the Git hooks inside your Docker container and burn down in hell you may skip this step. 👹 🔥

👉 <u>For the rest of audience it is recommended:</u>
1. Don't install pre-commit hooks
2. Use Makefile to run all commands in Docker container


Usage:

```bash
# Check the code quality
make dcq

# Check tests passing
make dtest

# Check everything in one hop
make dcheck
```


## 💼 <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Additional</span>

### Makefile

You can use the `Makefile` to work with project (run the application / code quality tools / tests ...)

For local usage:

```bash
# Run the application
make run

# Check the code quality
# make cq

# Check tests passing
make test

# Check everything in one hop
make check

...
```
💡 If you want run web-app locally you can use the next command

Run web-app locally (don't forget to activate the environment)
```bash
make run
```

### CORS policy

By default CORS policy accepts all connections


## <span style="color:#9DB7FF">Alembic (migration)</span>

### 1. Add a new migrations file 🔨

```bash
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Add a new field"
```

### 2. Upgrade to the latest migration 🔨

```bash
alembic upgrade head
```

### 3. Downgrade to the specific one 🔨

```bash
alembic downgrade 0e43c346b90d
```
✅ This hash is taken from the generated file in the migrations folder

### 3. Downgrade to the specific one 🔨

```bash
alembic downgrade 0e43c346b90d
```

### 4. Removing the migration 🔨

💡 Do not forget that alembic saves the migration version into the database.
```bash
delete from alembic_version;
```

### 5. Upgrade arbitrary servers
``` bash
alembic -c alembic_arbitrary.ini upgrade head
```

### 6. Database relation structure
```mermaid

erDiagram

User_applet_accesses ||--o{ Applets: ""

    User_applet_accesses {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        int user_id FK
        int applet_id FK
        string role
    }

    Users {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string email
        string full_name
        string hashed_password
    }

 Users||--o{ Applets : ""

    Applets {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string display_name
        jsonb description
        jsonb about
        string image
        string watermark
        int theme_id
        string version
        int creator_id FK
        text report_server_id
        text report_public_key
        jsonb report_recipients
        boolean report_include_user_id
        boolean report_include_case_id
        text report_email_body
    }

Applet_histories }o--|| Users: ""

    Applet_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        jsonb description
        jsonb about
        string image
        string watermark
        int theme_id
        string version
        int account_id
        text report_server_id
        text report_public_key
        jsonb report_recipients
        boolean report_include_user_id
        boolean report_include_case_id
        text report_email_body
        string id_version
        string display_name
        int creator_id FK
    }

Answers_activity_items }o--|| Applets: ""
Answers_activity_items }o--|| Users: ""
Answers_activity_items }o--|| Activity_item_histories: ""

    Answers_activity_items {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        jsonb answer
        int applet_id FK
        int respondent_id FK
        int activity_item_history_id_version FK
    }

Answers_flow_items }o--|| Applets: ""
Answers_flow_items }o--|| Users: ""
Answers_flow_items ||--o{ Flow_item_histories: ""

    Answers_flow_items {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        jsonb answer
        int applet_id FK
        int respondent_id FK
        int flow_item_history_id_version FK
    }

Activities }o--|| Applets: ""

    Activities {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        UUID guid
        string name
        jsonb description
        text splash_screen
        text image
        boolean show_all_at_once
        boolean is_skippable
        boolean is_reviewable
        boolean response_is_editable
        int ordering
        int applet_id FK
    }

Activity_histories }o--|| Applets: ""

    Activity_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        UUID guid
        string name
        jsonb description
        text splash_screen
        text image
        boolean show_all_at_once
        boolean is_skippable
        boolean is_reviewable
        boolean response_is_editable
        int ordering
        int applet_id FK
    }

Activity_item_histories }o--|| Activity_histories: ""

    Activity_item_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        jsonb question
        string response_type
        jsonb answers
        text color_palette
        int timer
        boolean has_token_value
        boolean is_skippable
        boolean has_alert
        boolean has_score
        boolean is_random
        boolean is_able_to_move_to_previous
        boolean has_text_response
        int ordering
        string id_version
        int activity_id FK
    }

Activity_items }o--|| Activities: ""

    Activity_items {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        jsonb question
        string response_type
        jsonb answers
        text color_palette
        int timer
        boolean has_token_value
        boolean is_skippable
        boolean has_alert
        boolean has_score
        boolean is_random
        boolean is_able_to_move_to_previous
        boolean has_text_response
        int ordering
        int activity_id FK
    }



Flows }o--|| Applets: ""

    Flows {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string name
        UUID guid
        jsonb description
        boolean is_single_report
        boolean hide_badge
        int ordering
        int applet_id FK
    }

Flow_items }o--|| Flows: ""
Flow_items }o--|| Activities: ""

    Flow_items {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        int ordering
        int activity_flow_id FK
        int activity_id FK
    }

Flow_item_histories }o--|| Flow_histories: ""
Flow_item_histories }o--|| Activity_histories: ""

    Flow_item_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string id_version
        int activity_flow_id FK
        int activity_id FK
    }

Flow_histories }o--|| Applet_histories: ""

    Flow_histories {
        int id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
        boolean is_deleted
        string name
        UUID guid
        jsonb description
        boolean is_single_report
        boolean hide_badge
        int ordering
        string id_version
        int applet_id FK
    }


```

## <span style="color:#9DB7FF"> Arbitrary setup </span>
You can connect arbitrary file storage and database by filling special fields in table `user_workspaces`.
### 1. PostgreSQL
Add your database connection string into `database_uri`
In next format:
```
postgresql+asyncpg://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:port/database
```
### 2. AWS S3 and GCP S3
For AWS S3 bucket next fields are required:
`storage_region`,`storage_bucket`, `storage_access_key`,`storage_secret_key`.
### 3. Azure Blob
In case of Azure blob, specify your connection string into field `storage_secret_key`
